#summary Introduction to jmxtrans

<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Introduction =

jmxtrans is a tool which allows you to connect to any number of Java Virtual Machines (JVM's) and query them for their attributes without writing a single line of Java code. The attributes are exported via [http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/tech/javamanagement-140525.html Java Management Extensions (JMX)]. Most Java applications have made their statistics available via this protocol and it is possible to add this to any codebase without a lot of effort. If you use the [http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.x/spring-framework-reference/html/jmx.html SpringFramework] for your code, it can be as easy as just adding a couple of annotations to a Java class file.

The query language is based on the easy to write [http://json.org/ JSON] format. This allows non-programmers access to JMX without having to know how to write Java. That makes this tool perfect for the busy Ops person.

The output is defined via special classes called OutputWriters. These are a bit more involved to write because generally it means integrating Java code with a third party tool such as [http://graphite.wikidot.com/ Graphite] or [http://ganglia.sourceforge.net Ganglia]. Out of the box, jmxtrans supports several output writers and we are encouraging others to suggest new ideas by submitting requests to the [http://code.google.com/p/jmxtrans/issues/entry issue tracker].

= Enabling JMX for a JVM =

In order to use jmxtrans, you must first enable Java Management Extensions (JMX) on your Java Virtual Machine (JVM). We recommend that you connect to Java 6 JVM's because there are improvements to the JMX protocol that we can take advantage of, such as wildcard (*) queries.

For applications behind a firewall that do not need security, add these arguments to the startup of the JVM in order to enable remote JMX connections:

{{{
-Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.port=1105 -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.authenticate=false -Dcom.sun.management.jmxremote.ssl=false
}}}

You should set the port number to any free port number on your machine that is above 1024.

For more details on enabling the agent, please read:

  * [http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/management/agent.html JMX Agent Configuration]
  * [http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/management/ Monitoring and Management]

= JConsole =

If you are going to use jmxtrans, it is helpful to gain an understanding of JConsole. This is a good visual tool for viewing attributes in a JVM. Using this tool will help you write your jmxtrans queries.

  * [http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/management/jconsole.html JConsole Documentation]